So talking about my favorite teacher, my favorite teacher is Obin Tyagi sir. They were my best tutor from class 10th to 12th. Sir, the qualities that I like were commitment and discipline. Coaching were not off on the off day. It means that 7 times a week we have to go to the Twitter. Only in a single day in a month we get a week off that was on Monday. So this created a habit of regular studies. Second was even in a batch of 150 students they were able to recognize my weakness. And that eventually brought that what is the problem with me was that I didn't have my basic clear because of which there was a lack of understanding or attention in my studies. First teacher who said actually positive sentence and that I am able to score good marks even knowing my previous track record. The third was the basic and clear difference was the way of teaching style. They taught each class as they were taught in the class 7th, 8th student. Not as current age student. To make a generalized and level up to all the crowd. They knew started and how great they were understood. Because in a batch they were around 10 to 18 students. And who do not come from a strong economic background. But sir gave them a free education thus building a strong society in subject and interest. It is not only about my faultSubject but also my father, where till I ate my father, other person after completing in the day duty, taught me MS in their free time. Story of my life, even MS was my 4th favorite MS subject. I got 18 marks out of 50 in my 1st year test of 10th standard and teacher was VXO sir. VXO sir have raised all the failed students in the class and in which I was also one of them. They were asking that what you want to be in your life and my answer was that I want to become an army officer. Each student laugh at me and said that for this you have to clear the NDA which require the PCM or B12 with the PCM. It have a very high cut off in the physics, chemistry, maths, engineering and APS. If you want with this marks you are no where standing in the school. I accept the challenge and started working to prove them wrong. After working hard and night in my 10th pre board too, I got the 2nd highest marks in the maths from nearly failing to the 2nd highest in class. Then it started as a challenge and it became my favorite subject because of my dream. It related to my future goals. There are also such applications that we cannot see in practical life of MS but it helped me to optimize the coding algorithm and have a good grasp on the advanced DSA topics which helped me in my corporate career. I have a lead code ranking of 21,000 and if we talk about the rating I have a cross 770 rating in lead code and a 3 star coder in course and clear multiple coding interview. Impact on me was disciplined developer in studies by my teacher. Sir also helped me to conquer my stage fear or when they try to ask any question in any problem.

about the previous. Then, in such a pressure condition, when every student look at me, when the teacher have asked me a question by standing me and a crowd of nearly 100 people see and look at me, this makes me nervous and unable to answer even after knowing the answer. They have a mentorship session where they pass out students of OVC who are attending an India training or are an army officer keep the interest in work or being in an army and learn from their experience. So, they have a beautiful session with them for one hour where each they are able to answer the query doubt related to NDA, the army life by the visiting person like the army officer and training and learning from the experience which was making a motivating factor for all the students, not only for me, not for all the students. When even I go, I acknowledge the people and wherever I go, I acknowledge the people about the defence literature exam and encourage them to write it and give their best. The least favourite subject is.
Physics of class 11th and taught by Renu Ma'am was my worst subject. It was taught by Renu Ma'am and newly appointed. It was her first time teaching and used to teach using only the PPT and not covering the topic in tab that were required as per the exam and to tackle the questions. The way of teaching and lack of practice quotient related to the quotient make the least for subject. But at the same time, Ma'am was the most gorgeous in the class and somewhat there was my fault that I didn't have basic much clear from the starting. I must have worked. I have done more practice

Talking about the challenges and subjects, in my class 11th, I have scored 68 marks out of 100 in physics. With this grade, entering the class 12th, which is the most important class of a student, I know my biggest failure are physics. So, what I did, I started attending two classes of physics in a single day about the same topic, same content is taught, but with a different timing, one in the morning and second in the evening. Initially, I taught Veer Singh Sir, who was my physics tutor, will charge me double fees, but they were generous to take the fees one time. Veer Singh Sir also challenged me that it will be hard to attend the morning class when coming with the bicycle, because I got a span of only 25 minutes that I have to reach my school. The coaching period was 6-7, and by 7.25, the assembly started in the R.O. Buggy School, so I had to rush towards it, so that I was able to attend the school. Lesson learned, I learned a lesson that even how much we are weak at a subject, if we are willing to improve and have a determination that I want to achieve good marks or clear exams, willing to hard work, then we can turn results into our favor. However, had a disagreement with our teacher, how you handle it, we have a subject of soft skills in engineering first semester, where our new substitute teacher was telling their life lesson, telling that your friends are not your friends, they are your enemies, they will not be able to, they will be in your heart and they will not come. And second thing, they were talking that in an interview, if your friend and you are competing, and you get the job or he gets the job, then he will not decline it, such that instead of him, you get the job. No one is too generous. So this was the word of my teacher, that you are fighting against the player, so giving me advice to work alone.Giving advice to be work alone don't help. At this point, I disagree with my teacher. My point was that it depends on your friend circle. I have always got a friend that helped me in my life to build my character, to build the skills that I don't have. I have talked in my hard time to stay positive and it is my responsibility to give it back to support them and their family, act as a family. Talking about the job, job will given to those who are deserving and qualifying, not just based on the friendship. Friendship we can determine. The qualification cannot be determined on the friendship. Best advice from a teacher. There was a news in our area where a student took his life because of academic pressure. This thing was also discussed in Twitter classes. Our teacher said, Talking your life, taking your life is the most coward thing. It means that he was not a fighter. He was not able to prove his worth, this importance to his parents, to his every known person. Our teacher encourages us to be a fighter, make our parents feel proud of our work. If you feel low, then go out for someone whom you can share, make moral up, share happiness, prove yourself, at least that you were the best fighter of your family. To prove your loved ones who are blindly trusting you. The memorable incident ends with your favorite subject. As I have a stage fear, phobia. In a whole year, our chemistry tutor took us to the school auditorium to demonstrate the practical law of chemistry with students from the same coaching and different places are united together.

So there were around more than 1500 students. Sir called out my name, introducing as I got 99 out of 100 in chemistry in class 11th, both in half year and full year. Sir said, giving other students tips about the adaptment. They started to praise indeed. But in my other, and other, when Mike comes to me, I completely blank. I was completely blank. All the things in my mind was gone because I have stage phobia. And then how can I, in my mind, how can I give someone of my age an advice to work hard. It is just a will that if you want, then you can do it. If you don't want, then no one from anywhere can do it. I started staying in what I actually want to say without any filter. First, I admitted that I have used the cheating material in class 9th, where I have minimized the whole book in a hand-sized book using the PC and the printer. I was able to score good marks using this cheating technique. But later I thought, if I have enough brain to make these cheats by myself and execute successfully, then why don't I study? Then I met a magician, Vivek Sarma sir in the class. In day 1 class, the interaction with this sir was more like an elder brother rather than a teacher. Moving forward, I have blindly tested sir and able to score good marks. I was the only student from the ABS studying from sir as other students were trusting the other students. If a person like me can score such good marks in academics, then it can be achieved by all of you. It depends on you as a person to become the unbeatable version of yourself. At the end of your journey, it matters your journey, not the achievement that you have got. I have got the best friend being the part of my journey. Rather, this achievement doesn't count so much. At the end of this speech, in my mind, I was criticizing myself that everyone will judge me and will criticize. But every person that were in the auditorium were clapping, including the teacher, worker, cleaner, staff. It felt like overwhelm. I cannot explain the feeling and words that someone actually has praised me, has actually listened to me.

The Unfair Treatment By Our Teacher So, in our tutor, our teacher, always the student whose elder brother or younger sister has already studied from the same tutor and showed good marks, and given special attention in class, not only they were raising the class points of the question, this time I feel a little bit of unfair, because every student must be treated equally, and rather based on her or his elder brother's performance, the student cannot be just that he is going to be a better student, rather trusting the overall and do not discriminate between the other students also.

Dislike teaching method to improve. In my perspective, use of both modern and traditional teaching like any complex diagram structure or motion are shown using the modern presentation or smart book. The traditional way of carrying out the diversion of physics, maths, or any subject manually by solving each question of the topic using the A mark and the board. Then there must be a session of cross-questioning session where the teacher asks from the student randomly about the previous topic taught. Then third is introducing the ChatGPT as a doubt solver if they are not able to get a satisfactory answer. Then fourth, weekly session talk to the student to have a personal touch, understand the student and accordingly modify the content.



Teacher supported or extracurricular guidance or coaching from a teacher as I was doing double classes of physics in a single day while during my 12th class basically repetition of the same class in a day. So that no doubt remained each concept of my 8th year because I have scored very poor marks in my class 11th physics so this was my chance so I took upon it. I don't want to risk so I have been doing these classes twice. Then in the ovens I have a concept of extra classes where the pass out student of the ovens took extra classes in which the double revision of the chapter took place. Nikhil sir was our mentor in the extra classes. They have a clear and written examination. We have a graph of 7 people who come regularly to learn the new concept of math and instead my math was like if I don't practice then I don't able to get it out.


.The teacher who encourages you to participate in the extracurricular activities, Mr. Arvind Raja and Mrs. Rajani Ma'am, who have encouraged me to participate in extracurricular activities during my college time. So, Mr. Arvind Raja encourages me to participate in the debate, extracurricular activities, or any speaking skills related. On the other hand, Mrs. Rajani Ma'am always gives me the responsibility related to the management, managing a team, or managing a staff. So, I don't know why, but Mrs. Rajani Ma'am blindly trusts me that I can organize anything at any level. But I also know my limit, that without any experience in hand, cannot make out a great arrangement for any event. Then, talking about the punishment that I got from my teacher and what I have learned from that. So, there are some times that I have reached my class lately because of other reasons. Then, teacher used to punish us of making a run of football field or writing a note to our parents, complaining about the same and explaining the situation that we have been late in the class. So, then what I have learned that if there has been any situation, then at least I have to reach the destination or the venue 15 minutes before, so that to avoid the last minute rush. Then, how did you react when the teacher gave you a constructive criticism? In my class 12th, gave me a constructive criticism. From class 12th of pre-board to my class teacher's recent class, gave a constructive criticism that I can score 90 marks by more hard work and even after.

Knowing that I have scored 76% last in my pre-port 2, I took it as an opportunity that sir have believed in me, and I have to work hard, focus on my weak point, and daily revise the cons and don't skip any class. At last able to score 90% overall in 12th and in PCM 93.3. Talking about the class monitor, in class 7th and 11th, I have been appointed as a class monitor, where generally duties of mine were, assisting the teacher in detecting the operation, handling the smart board, the functional development in the discipline in the class, when the teacher is in the teacher absence, observe the near around area in my class, making the discipline and arranging, making a line when going to morning walk, assembly games, or going to another point with my class, maintaining a good healthy communication with our class mates in the class, to follow a rule by themselves rather than enforcing, or just giving them warning. Initially there was a disagreement, then why I was the chosen one for the class monitor, then later with the communication and with the team skill, I was able to prove myself, then it has improved my decision making, team working skills


Situation where you have managed a class in a teacher assistant where was there were me and a girl monitor in a class that automatically have the responsibility to maintain the discipline in teacher assistant. They generally take around a week off, giving a warning to those who are making it allowed for only two persons to use the washroom to avoid a rush. They generally take care about that any external activity from outside don't create a chaos. Then talking about my parent that was eventually the first teacher of a child that they always say to do participate in the astral program activities or any activities that the school have arranged like participating in the sports, participating in the quizzes, participating in the co-curricular activities. My parents always insist to participate in this kind of activities.So I have answered all the questions that are related to the teacher and through my experience. I want you to improve my power of expression, generate a text, a well-coordinated paragraph, such that I am able to tackle all kinds of questions that are related to the teacher through the sentence that I have passed. I have passed my content, my memories, that I feel is the best. You can tune my content according to the SSP. Neglect that I have accidentally put something wrong. Improve it and make the better text in an organized way, such that if I am doing a cross-questioning, then I am able to answer it and I am able to narrate my point of view more efficiently. I have put my wrong point of view that I have been talking during the interview. Please tune this out.

.


































My Favorite Teacher and Their Impact on My Life
One of the most influential teachers in my life has been Obin Tyagi Sir, who taught me from Class 10 to 12. His qualities of commitment, discipline, and dedication left a deep impact on me. What set him apart was his unwavering consistency—our coaching classes never had unnecessary holidays, ensuring we studied seven days a week, with only one day off per month. This instilled in me the habit of regular studies and a strong work ethic.

Despite teaching a large batch of 150 students, he had an exceptional ability to recognize each student's weaknesses. He identified that my core issue was a lack of conceptual clarity due to weak fundamentals, which often led to a lack of attention in class. However, he was the first teacher to instill confidence in me, saying that I had the potential to score well despite my previous academic record. His belief in me motivated me to push beyond my limits.

Another unique aspect of his teaching was his methodology—he taught every topic as if he were explaining it to students of a lower grade, ensuring that no one in the class felt left behind. This approach was particularly beneficial for students who did not come from strong academic backgrounds. Additionally, he supported underprivileged students by offering them free education, reinforcing my belief that education has the power to uplift society.


My Journey with Mathematics
Mathematics was not always my strong subject. In Class 10, I initially struggled and scored only 18 out of 50 in my first-year test. My then-teacher, VXO Sir, once called up all the students who had failed and asked about our future aspirations. When I confidently said I wanted to become an Army officer, my classmates laughed, pointing out that clearing NDA required high marks in PCM (Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics)—subjects I was struggling with.

This moment became a turning point in my life. I took it as a challenge to prove them wrong. With relentless effort and guidance, I jumped from near failure to securing the second-highest marks in Mathematics in my class during the pre-board exams. This journey turned Mathematics into my favorite subject, as it became closely tied to my dream of joining the Armed Forces.

Later, my mathematical foundation also helped me in coding and algorithm optimization, leading to success in advanced data structures and securing a LeetCode ranking of 21,000 with a 770+ rating. These skills were instrumental in clearing multiple technical interviews during my corporate career.

Overcoming Stage Fear & Public Speaking
One of my biggest challenges during school was stage fear. I vividly remember an incident during a chemistry seminar where I was called upon to share my experience of scoring 99/100 in Chemistry. In a hall filled with over 1,500 students, I froze completely when handed the microphone. My mind went blank. However, I gathered my courage and spoke without a filter, sharing my genuine thoughts.

I even admitted to using cheat materials in Class 9, where I had designed a mini-sized book using a PC and printer. But later, I realized that if I had the ability to create such detailed cheat sheets, I could use the same effort to study properly. This transformation, aided by my chemistry tutor Vivek Sharma Sir, made me realize that success is about effort and self-improvement.

To my surprise, instead of judgment, the entire auditorium erupted in applause. It was a moment of self-realization—I had broken a major personal barrier. This event shaped my confidence and reinforced that real growth happens outside our comfort zone.

Tackling My Weakest Subject – Physics
Physics was one of my weakest subjects in Class 11, where I scored only 68/100. Knowing that Class 12 was crucial, I doubled my efforts by attending two physics classes per day—one in the morning and one in the evening—to ensure conceptual clarity.

My tutor, Veer Singh Sir, challenged me, saying that managing school and double classes would be difficult, especially since I had to rush to school within 25 minutes after morning coaching. However, I took this challenge head-on. His generosity in charging me only once for both classes further motivated me. Ultimately, this disciplined approach paid off, and I achieved strong marks in Class 12 Physics. This experience reinforced my belief that any weakness can be overcome with determination and structured effort.

A Disagreement with a Teacher – Lessons Learned
During my engineering first semester, a substitute teacher gave controversial advice, saying:

"Your friends are your enemies."

"In an interview, if your friend and you compete for the same job, they won’t step aside for you."

I strongly disagreed. Friendship is about mutual growth, and I have always had supportive friends who helped me build skills, stay positive during tough times, and shape my character. A job is secured by qualification, not friendship. While competition is natural, I believe in collaboration over rivalry.

This experience taught me that not every advice is absolute—we must analyze different perspectives and stand by our values.

Best Advice from a Teacher – Becoming a Fighter
A tragic news event in my locality once highlighted a student who took his own life due to academic pressure. During our coaching session, Obin Tyagi Sir addressed this issue, saying:

"Taking your own life is the most cowardly act. If you feel lost, talk to someone, seek help, but never quit."

"Your greatest fight is to prove your worth to yourself and to those who believe in you."

His words deeply resonated with me. They reinforced the mindset that life is about perseverance, not surrender. Even today, I encourage others to take defense exams and push themselves beyond their limits.

Teachers Who Encouraged My Extracurricular Activities
In college, two teachers had a significant influence on my extracurricular growth:

Arvind Raja Sir encouraged me to participate in debates and public speaking events, helping me improve my confidence.

Rajani Ma’am trusted me with team management and event organization, helping me develop leadership and coordination skills.

Their guidance played a pivotal role in my overall personality development.

Lessons from Punishments & Constructive Criticism
At times, I faced punishments for arriving late to class. Teachers would make us run laps around the football field or write notes explaining our tardiness. This taught me the importance of punctuality, and I now ensure I arrive 15 minutes early to any important event.

Similarly, when my Class 12 teacher told me that I could score 90+% with more hard work, I took it as a challenge rather than criticism. Despite scoring only 76% in my pre-boards, I focused on my weak points, revised daily, and ultimately secured 93% in PCM. This experience taught me that believing in oneself and consistent effort can lead to remarkable improvement.

