be specific about the what first aid things you will provide to him, (What are the basic first aid that we must provide to the different kind of scenario that I must know that which cream to apply and which is commonly available in India also?)

Make a buddy system, one person can't do a task alone, always in the buddy.
Make the pair of the group even,

Brun injuries - under Tap Running water, Soframycin cream, Stretcher 
Fracture - stabilize or immobilize injured person, we used a straight stick as a temporary splint. We placed it along the injured area and tied it with a clean or sterilized hanker chief at both ends to keep the hand stable and prevent further movement until medical help arrived.
 	- We first stabilized the injured person, then used a rod and a clean handkerchief to secure the fractured hand, and quickly took him to the hospital.
Bullet Wound - If the bullet is lodged inside, don’t remove it — cover the wound with a clean handkerchief, apply pressure to stop bleeding, and rush to the hospital
		- If the bullet has passed through, cover and press both entry and exit wounds to control bleeding, then get immediate medical help.
Bleeding - We applied pressure to the wound using a clean handkerchief and rushed the injured person to the hospital.
Head Injuries - stabilize the head, cover it with a clean cloth, apply pressure, and rush to the hospital.
Snake Bite - Use soap water (alkaline in nature) to neutralize the snake bite (acidic in nature). If not available, pour clean water on the bite area and slow down blood flow by tying a clean handkerchief on both ends of the affected area.Remove the tight jewellery that is on his body like the ring necklace or banned (because of pressure). if possible click the photo of snake, if it happen in live. 
accident on road - 
	dead bodies - provide basic first aid, use the own vehicle to rush towards hospital 
	fatal / serious injuries - provide basic first aid, use the own vehicle to rush towards hospital (b/c we don't need the type of injuries)


ABC
A – Airway – Ensure the airway is clear; do not cover the injured person.
B - Breathing - Injured person is constantly breathing, insure it.
C - Cardio(Heart)pulmonary(Lungs) resuscitation

Animal Stuck - take owner of cattle (animal bonding), use forest guard officer (their check post or forest range officer), 200KG Cattle, Use rope around the cattle & use physical force with villager to 

Cattle stuck in mud — immediately gather villagers, tie a rope around the body, and pull out using combined force and coordination. (villager know better than us about animal)
Cattle drowning — quickly tie a rope around its neck or torso, guide villagers to pull steadily, and rescue it safely from water. (Cattle are somewhat natural swimmer)

mention timming in the GPE.

Poison water Mixing - inform the supervisor or authority, discard the water, de-posiing of the water
Milk Tanker - inform the authority or driver, discard the milk, public anoucment if the milk reach to public, de-poisoning of tank

Railway fish plates - (manned level crossing - MLC), de-rail chances (rail palatna), railway internal calling system, inform the authority like RPF

Bomb Planted 
	1. Public Place - Inform the police, inform the bomb squad using police, assist police in evacuating the people
	2. Bridge
		1. Railway - stop the train crossing, inform RPF Station Master, inform bomb squad, 
		2. CM Convoy - inform the police that is there in the security of CM Convoy, 
	3. Dam - Dam Safety Act 2021, Must have CISF(Central Industrial Security Force) bomb defusal squad mandatory 

Item Lost - Retracing back the path, one will look the right other will look the left, find the item.

Fire Situation - 
	1. Hay Stack - prevent other hay stack to catch fire by using the water, pore water on other hay stack 
	2. Hut / Factory - make sure that are valuable are out, use the water, sand to douse the fire in the roof of the hut, b/c base is made of clay or mud
	3. Building - switch off the power supply, evacuate the people, douse fire using fire extinguisher / water / sand bucket

Land Slide - 
	1. Road - 
	2. Railway Track -  Station master or MLC, inform NDRF & assist them or use villager to clear the road use JCB

Bank Robbery - Dacoits are always armend not like miscreants, inform guard & manager, secure the hand rooms, inform police & assists them, ambush them
a police station or something or PCR van within 5 km of bank

when u call the police or any authority , u have to assist them

Thrifting Boat - tie the rope to other boat, toe it to the shore




1. budding system
2. Miscreant → unarmed  
   Robbers / Dacoits / Smugglers → armed  
   Kidnappers → armed / unarmed
3. work simultaneously 